---
layout: prose-post
title: Obligation Polymorphic Somnambulism
written: August 10, 2020
date: 2020-08-10
meta: Product functions as expected, side effects may include but are not limited to-
memory: II
mastheadClass: masthead-genuflectors
---

*into a deep vertical dreaming*

Basalt stone spirals. Bulging earth below swallowing bases and borders.
Composting creation. Confetti people bursting at the bellows. Forge born
rivulets running noses dripping crags and other golden ratios.

Switchback houses lining ash tray yards. Windows lit up bright raging ragers
anger boxed packaged sold. Remember your anger? Only a torn tapestry of fury
now. An in between color faded.

Who am I? Who are you (are who?). ... .....

No sense contemplating impossible. Unknowable, certain. Pull back the curtain.
Sun shine cut down mist. Ash snow falling. Dreaming graves they dance on. Who?
All those others. Those others, you know. They're still here. Inside now, not
out.

*dreaming corkscrews without provocation*

Beds and coffins planks of coffers. Skin copper coinage slipped. From behind
the pillars. Smiling wallets. Grinning bottles packed to the brim. Documents
signed.

And the cables tighten. And the cords loosen. And the curtains fumble with the
breeze. And the light melts caramel cousins. Sickly. Sweet. Memories carved in
a blackness chiseled away away away moving along along along the brain the
brain the brain.

Supplemental neuron growth. Twisting tunnels bored and reshaped in
multiangular faces. Blue mountain passes. Cavernous pits and craters. Abyssal
ravines split reformed crystalline breeding grounds.

There the light streaming beachside into your eyes on fire. No furnace too
hot. Everything chemically cooled. Crucible death quenched.

*spinning subsides*

Basalt stone spirals. Blackness forest chipping leaves. Spirits chant. Around
Jericho towers. Sinking tipping over turning. All the people unforgotten.
Recall the names, now. Do it, what were their names? What were they, tell me.
Tell me their names.

Lost in a bliss. Cataracted mind. Limping cells swimming amorphous being.
Remember the songs you sang. Registries emptying steadily. Armies faceless
marching below on lily pads. Caught revolving door without a head.

Gold flakes remember you. Falling. Rivers from Heaven. Waking world of dead
dreamers. Streaming. From on high.

*sudden vertigo dreaming collapse*

Deep breaths, deeper. Tightness spirals tighter, fuzzy image. Abstract
skipping records in eyes. Playing tricks in the light. A face you recognize.
The name, what is the name? Tell me the name.

*the thought escapes*

The margins burn away. Ash over basalt something tumbling. Floating flipping
some noise about. Tomorrow hello direct unaware waking pleasure illusory
saline drowning pool.

*place in the memory goes white*

Soft mechanical chirping. Crystal life tethers. Solarium stars and dark
screens. Pitch windows. Obsidian light poles flicker beyond vision.

Muffled spasm voices outside. Sheets soaked sweat swollen, open pillbox.

The curtains fumble with the breeze. The voices clear away.

*time bleeds away slowly*
