---
layout: blog-post
title: Horizon and Other Projects
written: September 14, 2021
meta: I talk about my latest programming project, among other pending ones.
category: blog
tags: music coding tui
mastheadClass: masthead-blog
---

I continue to let this website idle as I tend to other projects. I find that I'm
constantly moving between different creative outlets, and at the moment I can't
seem to focus on one long enough to feel like it makes a difference.

Well, except for one project in particular. Let's talk about _horizon_.

<hr>

## Programming as a Means to an End

Over the past couple weeks, I've performed the age old task of any true
programmer: steal ideas from other open source projects, tweak designs slightly,
write it in a language you didn't intend to write it in at the start, and spew
out as much lukewarm, half-alive code you can in as short a timeframe as
possible.

Also, smile a bit, we like to have fun here.

You may remember me discussing the setup of my Logitech Music Server in [a
previous blog
post](https://lexicachromatica.xyz/blog/2021/01/02/Running-Your-Own-Music-Server/).
Well, I found myself wanting some information about the currently playing track,
so that I could display it in a polybar module. I found an interesting [Python
library](https://github.com/roberteinhaus/lmsquery) that could communicate with
the LMS and get that information, which eventually snowballed into
[_horizon_](https://github.com/Nynergy/horizon).

![Showcase of horizon](/img/horizon.jpg)

_horizon_ is my attempt at reimplementing the functionality of the music
server's browser-based interface, while incorporating a lot of design influences
from projects like [ncmpcpp](https://github.com/ncmpcpp/ncmpcpp). Originally I
wanted to make it in C++ so I could utilize my [vexes
library](https://github.com/Nynergy/vexes), but I found that the lmsquery
library was too important to abandon Python.

I'm still unsure of why I made _horizon_. I love to make terminal apps, and I
love music, and getting to create a controller for my music server was certainly
a joy, but why not just stick with the browser interface?

I don't know. Perhaps I was bored. Perhaps I simply used it as an excuse to
ignore other projects that failed to interest me at the time. I'm still sitting
on another edition of __Babylon Effect__, another Haskell program that may see
the light of day eventually, five or six short stories and outlines of other
prose passages that need writing/editing, and of course this website.

If programming is only a means to an end, then what is that end?

Regardless of how I see the completion of _horizon_ (at least this first release
of it), I'm still very proud of what I made, and I use it almost every day. I
use it far more than [_cascade_](https://github.com/Nynergy/cascade), which
really tells you how much more I value music and creativity over pure
productivity.

Feel free to check out _horizon_ if you also run an LMS, and let me know what
you think.

<hr>

## Programming as an End

I like to think that hobbies have no other purpose than to exist as themselves.
They are not a means to make some statement, or better someone's life, though
they can be used in such a way if one wants. They exist for the sake of joy, and
I've found in my life that joy itself _is_ the end.

I indulge in a number of hobbies, programming just being one of them. I also
write poetry and prose, I make music, I play Netrunner. I do these things not
because they better me as a person, or because they improve someone's life; I do
these things because they bring me joy.

When it comes to programming, I am a hobbyist before I am a professional.

In that way, I suppose I like to view programming as an end in and of itself.
Why did I make _horizon_? Because I had to. It kind of feels more like a Zen
koan in that sense.

<hr>

## Ouroboros as Lifestyle

So where does that leave me and my many projects? Juggled amongst ourselves,
never quite landing long enough to make significant progress. I put down current
projects to pursue new ones that either die out unfinished or get put down to
pursue newer ones. Old projects resurface in a bout of inspiration, boredom,
stubbornness, or otherwise ill-conceived desire.

I've become accustomed to this type of life. Fluid-like, never settling on a
spot to rest for long. But I feel if I want to derive greater joy from what I
do, I need to learn the discipline necessary to finish what I start. I've got
the precedent to do so; projects like _cascade_, _horizon_, [__Inner
Weather__](https://benbuchanan.bandcamp.com), and my
[three](https://www.amazon.com/Babylon-Effect-Ben-Buchanan/dp/1099453062)
[poetry](https://www.amazon.com/Another-Flow-Ben-Buchanan/dp/B089M2HZ9S)
[books](https://www.amazon.com/Drift-Illogical-Ben-Buchanan/dp/B092PG42QL) are
all fruits of a finished labor.

What I'd like to do is write down all the different projects and ideas I've got
rattling up in that brain of mine, toss out all the ones that I feel aren't
feasible or interesting enough to fully pursue, and commit to finishing the
rest, preferably with some kind of soft deadline.

Who knows, maybe it'll give you some more words to read on this site, and it'll
give me something more to do than constantly come back to the same half-baked
tail I keep eating.

<div class="attrib">
Ben Buchanan
</div>
